Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on themes themes is our final layer in the grammar of graphics
and it's going to allow us to quickly and easily create beautiful data visualizations.
There's already a lot of built in themes and GZA plot.
You'll also learn how to install a great library called G-G themes which adds even more built in themes
for G.G. plot.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and see how this all works.
All right so here we are at our studio.
Let's go ahead and get started by doing a very simple plot and then building off of it with some names
.
I'm going to go ahead and call library G-G plot 2.
And then I will use the empty car's data set that we're pretty familiar with.
To go ahead and make a very simple scatterplot.
So go ahead and pass on our first argument which is our data.
Empty cars.
And then we'll pass in our aesthetics later.
So we'll say x is equal to the weight of the car why is equal to the mpg of the car.
Now we'll go ahead and say GM underscore points since were working for scatterplot will sign that TPL
and we'll go ahead and say Prince P.L..
All right let's go ahead and run this.
And once it shows up over here in the plot's which takes a little bit but here it is.
We can see we have our nice basic plot.
All right.
Now let's learn how we can apply a theme layer to this plot if we want to apply a theme or set a theme
for all the plots that we're going to be plotting in the scripts.
We can say theme underscore sets and then you can pasan a theme.
So notice as I begin to type theme underscore you'll see a bunch of themes show up.
So for instance let's go ahead and choose theme.
Minimal.
Now if I run source we get a minimal theme.
So notice a difference between this last one the default versus the minimal.
You can see the minimal has a white background and less information of it as far as color goes.
So that's one way you can set the theme or go ahead a hash tag that out that will set the theme for
all your plots and your script if you want to manually add a specific theme for each plot.
You can then just add it saying plus theme.
Let's go ahead and say theme dark in this case.
So you go and just add themes like that.
Go ahead and run that code and I can see the darker theme showed up here.
So there's two ways of doing it.
One is to set the theme for all your plots.
The other one is just to add that theme to each individual plot.
All right.
So that's how we can set themes that are already built into the plot too.
But we can actually call a library called G-G themes in order to get even more theme options before
we call it.
Though we have to actually install it.
So in your console we're good and clear that you need to say installed up packages and in quotes pass in
G-G themes enter.
Go ahead and let it install the package and download it onto your computer.
Once that's done and downloaded what we can do now is if we Cecco library will be able to say G-G themes
.
Go ahead and click run just to run that current line selection.
So select that library the themes line click run.
So now we have Jesus themes loaded and if we go back to theme underscore and click tab you'll start
to notice that you have a lot more options due to G-G themes.
See our theme underscore calque theme economist theme 5:38 theme GI docs foundation.
Cetera.
So a lot of these themes are actually based off of real publications.
For example you have the Economist which is a magazine.
You can try to emulate their style.
So if we go ahead and run this you get this kind of blue background which is use in a few of their data
visualizations for the Economist.
Another thing you can do is try to imitate the style of the 538 blog which has a blog on statistics
run by Nate Silver which is also kind of famous for its data visualizations.
So you can run that all began to try to develop the same style.
And you'll notice as you click theme underscore tab you have tons of options to choose from including
things like The Wall Street Journal theme when going to run that.
See what that looks like.
And there you have it.
OK.
So that's really all there is.
Discuss about themes.
Again there's two ways to set them.
You can set a theme for all your plots or you can add the themes individually to each plot.
You can actually create your own themes However however this is outside of the scope of this course
but you can check out the notes for a link to the documentation which has a full written guide on how
to describe and set your own themes for your own publications.
OK.
Hope you enjoyed this lecture.
I'll see you at the next one